We'll start by defining the concept,
which is the one-line, one-line
pitch, elevator pitch, as
we want to call it.
It is an affirmation that can
be composed of one or several
phrases in which you transmit
in the most direct and brief
possible way what you do and
allows you to capture interest
within your target audience.
The one-lineer can be verbalized in a
presencial way, that's not the important
thing because it should be the
same really.
The one-liner that will
help us is those situations
in which someone asks you
what you do?
Have a response that is always
the same, that is well thought
out and that is designed
to the goal.
And what is the goal?
As we have said, the goal is
to generate interest and the
one-lineer we will use
it to generate interest in
absolutely all the contact
points we have with customers.
Why is?
Because you have to keep in mind
that every company has numerous
points of contact with customers,
that is, it has thousands of opportunities
to generate interest and to
sell in a multitude of
occasions and we can
not miss any of them.
You have in mind that a customer
may have entered a website
or contacted you through
linking, connected with you
or received an email.
We don't have to give for granted
that customers that the target
audience has visited
absolutely all the marketing
pieces we have, so that's
why it's so good to have
worked the one-lineer and
repeat it to satiety in absolutely
every opportunity
we have because it's the
best tool we have to
generate interest in our
target audience.
We will specify where we
recommend that you incorporate your
one-lineer, for example, within
your website.
Your website has to tell the full
story, but somewhere on the website
you should incorporate one-
line because it is the statement
that exposes or that transmitts
in a shorter way what
you do.
You could add it to your email signature,
there are people who do.
It is very important that you do so on
your LinkedIn profile.
How many people visit you on LinkedIn?
Well, because people who visit you
on LinkedIn can't miss those opportunities
or on the business cards or there
are companies that use
it in the product packaging
itself.
The goal, as you can see, is
not to miss any of the opportunities
or dinner, wherever, when you
meet someone.
You have to work well with the one-lineer.
Another recommendation is that
the entire team should know it.
The whole team has to know, it
has to know the story we have
created and the whole team
has to know the one-lineer.
It's very important because you have
in mind that your team, all the
people in your team in an organization,
are ultimately a multitude
of contact points.
They are generating a huge impact on
your day to day and around.
Repeat it without stopping.
Donald Miller tells us that he
compares him to a music
group, a music group that
has a success, that, 20 years
ago.
What is the song that everyone
wants to hear when they go to
a concert?
Probably that group wants to
play the last songs from
the last album, because they
are bored to always play the
same.
But really what you have to do
is play the song that signals
because it's what the target
audience expects.
It is the one that gets the most.
The one-line is the same.
You must communicate it by land,
sea and air permanently at
all points of contact you have
with customers.
Now let's see how to create the one-lineer.
Let's look at a few models or recommendations.
The truth is that this is very useful
because if you face a blank
sheet it is very difficult.
You don't even know where to start.
And when we have a model to support
us, and also some examples, it
is much simpler because you only
have to adapt your messages
to that structure that is
already very well thought out
and very well removed.
On the one hand, what we can
do is take the story we have
created with the StoryBrand
framework and make a summary
and focus primarily on four
of the sections.
One, that the protagonist feels identified
in your story in the one-lineer
that says this is for me.
Two, that we help you visualize
what the problem is you have.
Let us tell you what our plan is,
although you really won't have
time to detail it but you'll give
him some clue about what the plan
is and you'll tell me I'm
here to help you with this.
And finally, it's always that we
help you visualize what the happy
ending is.
motivation to do so.
Let us now look at three examples and
let us analyze how we have
considered these different sections.
We start with the case of Viti Sports,
a company you have already known
that is dedicated to obtaining
sports scholarships for university students.
Let us see.
The proposal, we help Spanish
universities to live a dream thanks
to the management and obtaining
sports scholarships in American
universities.
We have managed to identify
the protagonist because
we are saying it.
We are talking directly to those
we help, to Spanish universities.
The problem we have not described expressly
because at the time we are talking
about sports scholarships it is already
obvious that it is to that dream
you can not access if it is not with
the scholarship because it is
economically because that is almost
unattainable or for very few.
We are telling you how we will help
you that is that we will help
you manage and get that scholarship.
And at all times I think it's clear
what the benefit of living a dream
and having the opportunity
to study at an American
university is.
Let's look at another structure that
is simpler and that you would only
have to change the message and
is explaining to you in a very simple
way what your plan is or what
your solution is and three
describe what the benefit of this
story is, what the happy end is
and let's see several examples.
We start with Kuvalu, a marketplace
where you can hire events
founded by Marta Oderiz,
a student of The Power MBA.
We start.
Organizing an event
is a real headache.
We have identified the problem.
Our target audience should and here
I tell you what my solution is.
In Kuvalu you can hire the best
providers online.
I let you know exactly
how I solve your problem
and also describe the happy
ending because we want not
only your event to be perfect
but also to organize
it easier than ever.
Let us now again take the
example of Beatisports using this
structure.
Studying at a university in the
United States is a dream for many,
but it is within the reach of very few.
This is the problem.
You should feel identified
with this saying yes because
I would love it but it is
true that I can't afford it.
We help you get a sports scholarship.
I tell you what my plan is.
So that you have the opportunity to
live an unforgettable experience that
is the benefit.
As you can see, it is very easy to
implement this structure in three simple steps.